# Strong Naming

A strong named assembly is generated by signing the assembly with a key. When an assembly is strong-named, it creates a unique identity and can help prevent assembly conflicts.

The downside to strong-naming is that the .NET Framework on Windows enables strict loading of assemblies once an assembly is strong named. A strong-named assembly reference must exactly match the version referenced by an assembly, forcing developers to [configure binding redirects](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/configure-apps/redirect-assembly-versions) when using the assembly:

```xml
<configuration>
   <runtime>
      <assemblyBinding xmlns="urn:schemas-microsoft-com:asm.v1">
         <dependentAssembly>
            <assemblyIdentity name="myAssembly" publicKeyToken="32ab4ba45e0a69a1" culture="neutral" />
            <bindingRedirect oldVersion="1.0.0.0" newVersion="2.0.0.0"/>
         </dependentAssembly>
      </assemblyBinding>
   </runtime>
</configuration>
```

When .NET developers complain about strong-naming, what they are usually complaining about is strict assembly loading. Fortunately, .NET Core relaxes this restriction and removes the main downside of strong-naming.

The benefits of strong naming are:

1. The assembly can be referenced and used by other strong-named assemblies
2. The assembly offers a cryptographic guarantee of identity (provided you choose to keep the key secret)
3. The assembly can be stored in the Global Assembly Cache (GAC)
4. The assembly can be used by plug-in architectures that require strong naming

One important aspect of strong naming is it is viral: a strong named assembly can only reference other strong named assemblies. If your library is not strong named then developers who are building an application or library that needs strong naming are excluded from using it.

## What should I do?

Applications don't need to strong name most of the time, but strong naming is recommended for .NET OSS libraries. Strong-naming a library's assembly ensures that the most people can use it, and .NET Core removes the main problem with strong-naming.

**✔️ CONSIDER** strong-naming your library's assemblies.

**✔️ CONSIDER** checking in the key used to strong-name into your source control system.

> A publicly available key lets developers modify and recompile your library source code with the same key.

> [!NOTE]
> When a cryptographic identity is desired, [Authenticode](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-hardware/drivers/install/authenticode) and [NuGet Package Signing](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/create-packages/sign-a-package) are recommended. Strong naming should not be used for security considerations.

**✔️ CONSIDER** incrementing the assembly version on only major version changes to help users reduce binding redirects, and how often they are updated.

**❌ DO NOT** publish strong-named and non-strong-named versions of your project, e.g. `Contoso.Api` and `Contoso.Api.StrongNamed`.

> If an application ends up depending on both packages the developer will encounter type name conflicts.

**More Information**

* [Strong-Named Assemblies](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/app-domains/strong-named-assemblies)
* [Redirecting Assembly Versions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/configure-apps/redirect-assembly-versions)